---
layout: post
title: HW5 - Chapter 4 and reflections
---

4.5) Using the technique suggested here, where natural language descriptions are presented in a standard format, write plausible user requirements for the following functions: 

An unattended gas pump system that includes a credit card reader. The customer swipes the card through the reader, then specifies the amount of fuel required. The fuel is delivered and the customer's account debited. 

Description: A machine used to deposit gas into a persons car.
Function: Read a credit card and provide correct amount of fuel.
Inputs: Credit card and possibly a pin number
Source: A credit/debit card reader
Outputs: Gas through a pump with an option for a recipe 
Destination: A gas tank


The cash-dispensing function in a bank ATM.

Description: A function within an ATM that gives a user a certain amount of cash requested from their banking account
Function: Dispenses cash from an ATM
Inputs: A credit/debit card
Source: A credit card reader and a user control terminal
Outputs: The correct amount of cash requested to withdraw
Destination: The user/consumer of the ATM


In an internet banking system, a facility that allows customers to transfer funds from one account held with the bank to another account with the same bank.

Description: A banking service that provides transferring of money from one account to the next
Function: To allow a user to transfer money from one account to another account
Inputs: Account information, Fund amount to transfer, recipient of the funds
Source: Any device that is able to connect to the internet and access the banking system
Outputs: A confirmation message or email that the transfer had been completed successfully
Destination: In the recipients banking account


4.6) Suggest how an engineer responsible for drawing up a system requirements specification might keep track of the relationships between functional and non-functional requirements. 
By separating the system requirements into two groups, functional and nonfunctional, software engineers can better keep track of requirements and also prioritize what needs to be completed first or what needs to get completed before moving on to another requirement.

4.7) Using your knowledge of how an ATM is used, develop a set of use cases that could serve as a basis for understanding the requirements for an ATM system. 
1. Customer inserts credit card.
2. Customer enters correct PIN
3. Customer enters invalid PIN
4. Customer wants to deposit money
5. Customer wants to check funds
6. Customer wants to make a withdrawal
7. Customer wants to transfer funds
8. Customer wants a receipt
9. Customer does not want a receipt

