---
layout: post
title: HW4 - Reflections on software failures
---
The Therac-25 article showed the daunting reality of what can happen when software engineers can get to confident and lackadaisical when designing software that is used very often in other peoples lives. The accidents involving radiation treatments were very hard to read about since I know some people who have gone through that treatment for cancer. Radiation machines should be handled with the upmost care since they are the determining factor between life and death in some peoples lives. Radiation is also very expensive, therefore the machines used for treatment should be top notch. Nobody should feel any “red hot” sensations when they are getting radiation treatment and be left with horrible radiation burns.  These accidents were never reported by the AECL when they started happening, which is the disturbing part. A 60 year old lady had to have her breast removed, lost use of her shoulder and was in constant pain, yet nobody said anything to the FDA about the possible machine malfunction. Yes this is part fault of the software programmers but the other five or six accidents could have been prevented if the first few accidents were reported. Another thing that really disturbed me reading this article is that the Therac-25 operators have become accustomed to frequent malfunctions with their machines but continued to use them. Reporting these malfunctions and undergoing the proper testing could have prevented the accidents that occurred. The slackness in programming and laziness on the part of the AECL to report injuries have led to people dying and getting seriously injured when receiving radiation treatment for their cancerous diseases. This goes to show how vital it is for programers and their employers to take extra care and caution when developing and creating a products since it can sometimes be the deciding factor between life and death. 


All of the articles that I read have one common factor: software engineers not being careful enough when developing their products and not taking enough time to test before releasing to the public. The FBI auto warning article was yet another example of this common occurrence. The article laid out a situation in which drivers of modern day cars were having their cars hacked and losing control of functionality like braking, steering and locking the doors. This is yet another example of software engineers failing to think of every test case possible. Security should be at or near the top of every programmers priorities list. As mentioned in the textbook, proper design techniques and safety testing and review are vital to the development of reliable, safe, and secure software. The readings from the past few weeks exemplify what can happen when software is developed improperly, which we have to learn from so we don't make the same mistakes in the future

