---
layout: post
title: HW2 - Reflections on software engineering practices
---

Fredrick P. Brooks said it best in his article “The Silver Bullet”, there is no magic way to conquer the problems of software engineering as there would be shooting a werewolf with a silver bullet. Through the progression of time software has had a way of morphing itself into a beastly werewolf on a whim, however the way to go about solving these issues are more complex than one would think. One of the biggest problems seen in the complex structure of software is the idea that it should conform to the ever changing hardware it operates on. When so many users demand the software change and evolve with the machines, problems tend to ensue. Since software is built layer by layer by so many different people, not having the proper version of updated files can lead to issues when a coder wants to merge with a project. 

In George Neville-Neil’s article “Kode Vicious Cherry-Picking and the Scientific Method”, he harps on the importance of not letting the tip of the git get away from you. The longer someone waits to merge an instance of the project, the more issues you will face down the road. Since software engineering is not a one man show, updating your changes is vital to the teams success. This approach will keep you from having to “cherry pick” code from one branch to another. He suggests that it is best to approach problems in your code the same way as you would through the scientific method. State your problem, come up with a hypothesis, run your test cases, and conclude with weather or not it worked. By documenting the progression of a problem getting solved, it makes it easier to communicate about a topic that is unvisualizable to your colleagues. 

To my surprise Google tried to solve the problem of version control by having a monolithic repository that everyone has access to. In Rachel Potvin and Josh Levenberg’s article “Why Google Stores Billions of Lines of Code in Single Repository”, they explain a few of the advantages of having one repository are unified versioning, extensive code sharing, and collaboration across teams. However, the massive size of such a repository has its disadvantages as well. Having so many editors leads to situations where freshly uploaded and edited files may break preexisting functions, similar to a small team project but multiplied by googol. To fix this problem Google has to spend a lot of effort making sure uploaded code remains healthy and compatible. All in all there is no magic cure for the hardships of software engineering, especially when it is done in collaboration with others.


