---
layout: post
title: HW 8 - Mythical Man Month
---

One of the problems that Mythical Man-Month, by Frederick P. Brooks, Jr., addresses is creating a product that has now become obsolete. This really stuck out to me because I personally am afraid of spending much of my time to developing software and it simply is washed down the drain because I was too late.

In the article he talks about how people use the amount of work a man can do in a month as a unit of measurement. I think it's interesting how a man and months are interchangeable when it comes to a task being performed. He mentions that the more men you have on a task does not necessarily mean that task will get done faster.

“Computers are young, programmers are younger, and the young are always optimists.”  This is a quote that stuck out to me because I want to remain as young as the software I am working on. People say you are as young as your heart so if I can remain optimistic while still remaining realistic with my expectations my youth will prevail. I strive to be the sweet spot between optimistic with realistic expectations.

It seems like testing is not nearly as valued or allocated time as it should be in the industry. In classes we always discuss the importance of it but based off of what I am hearing from classmates who have worked in the industry, this is an extremely flawed process that sometimes is not even carried out in their fullest way.

Scheduling a Software Task:
⅓ Planning
⅙ Coding
¼ component test and early system test
¼ system test, all components in hand

I think it is interesting how the author has successfully allocated his time as this is his personal standard. I take on a very similar division of time when I code projects myself, being ¼ planning, ½ programming, and ¼ testing. I understand where he derives these values from and will continue to put it into practice on my next project.

Brooks also writes about a ‘surgical team’ and this resonated with me quite a bit. I’ve seen many teams underperform largely due to lack of a structured team and poorly defined responsibilities within a team. This also relates to the idea that a single design philosophy is often the best approach to development. As Brooks notes, this structured approach improves team dynamics, and more importantly, leads to projects being built more efficiently.

The general idea I came away with from the first four chapters of The Mythical Man Month was that a well thought out, structured approach to system development is the best approach to completing large scale projects. I feel Brooks's points about conceptual integrity are solid. There really ought to be one person (or in the cases of larger products few people) who controls the architecture of the system. When everyone gets a say in the structure there are conflicts and there are too many ideas. One unified coherent vision is far more preferable.
