---
layout: post
title: HW1 - Chapter 1
---
1.3: What are the four important attributes that all professional software should possess? Suggest four other attributes that may sometimes be significant.
  
  The four most important attributes are Efficiency, Maintainability, Dependability, Acceptability.
  Four other attributes that may be significant are Readability, Usefulness, Security, and Preformance.
  
  
1.8: Discuss whether professional software engineers should be licensed in the same way as doctors or lawyers.

I think professional software engineers should get licensed the same way doctors and lawyers have to. When someone is a professional in their field, having a license to show customers give them a sense of comfort knowing that they are in wellbtrained hands. Many software engineers develop software for people who are licesened professionals, therefore it is only right for them to be as well. A license also provides the professional with a set of laws he/she must abide by, any infract will result in getting their license revoked.


1.9: For each of the clauses in the ACM/IEEE Code of Ethics shown in Figure 1.4, propose an appropriate example that illustrates that clause.

1. Public: When creating software, protect any personal data from leaking to the public.

2. Client and Employer: Don't lie to a client or employer about your abilities as a software engineer. This will only embarass you and your employer. 

3. Product: Hold your product to a professional standard. Ensure your product is secure using a variety of test cases and encrypted passwords

4. Judgment: Regardless of the demands of a client/employer, a software engineer must maintain integrity when designing. Do not aide in illegal financial gains.

5. Management: Leaders should create an environment for employees so they feel safe and know they are not breaking any codes of ethical development.

6. Profession: Don't take a job at a company that has a history of unethical software engineering.

7. Colleagues: Be a team player when it comes to working with other people.

8. Self: Always stay up to date with the ever progressing field of computing



1.10: To help counter terrorism, many countries are planning or have developed computer systems that track large numbers of their citizens and their actions. Clearly, this has privacy implications. Discuss the ethics of working on the development of this type of system.

Terrorism is an ongoing threat in this world and it is a valent act to try and stop it, however developing a system to counter terrorism by tracking the general public can very easily violate the code of ethics. Given the mass amounts of private information that would be vetted through the system, companies can could easily make an extra profit selling others information. In order to maintain an ethical development it is cruical that a strong, trustworthy leadership group is in place.
